---
date created: 2024-01-28
date modified: 2024-01-29
created: 2024-01-28
modified: 2024-07-05
---
Dear Admissions Committee,

Since before college, my ambition has always been to become a software engineer, which explains why I chose Computer Science as my undergraduate major. With this goal in mind, I have dedicated myself to excelling in academic coursework, culminating in a GPA of 3.83 out of 4 in one of the most prestigious Computer Science programs in China, with a strong record in the top 10% ranking of most core courses.

In addition to my academic achievements, I have actively sought opportunities to enhance my practical capabilities. This semester, I participated in an open-source project called SDG ( Synthetic Data Generator ) and brought the Copula model as a statistical alternative to the GAN-based model for the project. Seeing my avatar appear in the list of contributors gives me a great sense of achievement. Furthermore, as a team leader, I contributed to a project called the Intelligent COVID-19 Q&A System in collaboration with the National Center for Disease Control and Prevention. Throughout this project, I engaged in various natural language processing and data-related tasks. By extracting question-answer pairs at different granularities and performing syntactic analysis of questions, I enhanced the generality of the Q&A system and finally achieved the desired effect. In addition, my curiosity about the financial industry drove me to undertake an internship at Uranus Research LLC, a multi-billion-dollar quantitative trading hedge fund in China. This involved intensive interaction with data, such as analyzing and modeling log data to establish anomaly detection logic, visualizing the data, and creating preliminary analysis reports. Although it differed from my initial objective of studying quantitative strategies, the internship was invaluable in broadening my understanding of trading systems and honing my engineering skills.

In my leisure hours, one of my main activities is surfing indiehackers.com and reading newsletters from startup founders. Their entrepreneurial stories have sparked a flame within me, leading me to contemplate seriously about launching my own venture. Gradually, I started to write down some entrepreneurial ideas in the memo. The one I want to present here was inspired by [Derek Beck's travel videos](https://www.derekbeck.co/walk), which made me realize how audio can bring static photos to life and take us back to scenes in our memories. That's when I had the idea to create an app that could record sound 24/7 without interruption, let me call it Replay for now. People can use Replay to replay the sound they heard or spoke at any moment in their lives. It could be a valuable asset for creators who work with audio content, such as journalists, musicians, or filmmakers. The audio snippet they need can strike unexpectedly at any moment. With Replay, they'd have a fantastic tool to capture these fleeting sparks. It could also be useful for those involved in client-facing roles, such as salespeople, consultants, waitstaff, or receptionists. It would enable them to revisit their interactions or verify details. Except for professional uses, Replay can find a place in the everyday life of any individual. The very idea of being able to chronicle every sound one encounters or produces is intriguing, compelling people to give it a spin. It could also serve as a tool for capturing memories, from cute moments to the cherished first words of a toddler. Furthermore, it could be used as a search tool, or even to feed curiosity about personal stats like daily word count or speech patterns. Replay can effortlessly provide such insights on top of its basic features.

Essentially, Replay falls under the category of personal history apps, a domain with products like screen usage trackers, health history apps, location history apps such as [Google Maps Timeline](https://www.google.com/maps/timeline), and 24/7 screen recording tools such as [Rewind](https://www.rewind.ai/). Based on the observation of these products and the discussion above on Replay's target users, we can outline the fundamental features that Replay should possess:
+ Seamless and reliable auto-recording in the background
+ Efficient use of battery and optimized data storage
+ Fundamental data processing capabilities, including automatic transcription and voice enhancement
+ Search functionality enabled by transcribed text
+ Organize recording data in the form of a timeline
+ User-friendly navigation aided by audio spectrograms, transcribed text, etc. 
+ Privacy: data localization and easy-to-export universal formats.

These features form Replay's core competitive edge. Most of the recording tools currently available on the market focus on lightweight, short-term recordings or more demanding scenarios such as meetings and lectures. There is not yet a recording tool that meets all these features. The closest one is [24/7 Voice Recorder](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=june.lee.lifememoryapp&hl=en&gl=US), which provides 24/7 automated recording and also focuses on user privacy. However, its usability leaves much to be desired. Although it organizes recordings on a timeline, it only breaks down data by the hour. With no additional navigation aids or search functions, users may find themselves tediously scrubbing through multiple hour-long audio files to locate a specific clip.

In terms of profit model, I believe a subscription-based model might be the most viable option. Replay isn't an app where users would spend a significant amount of time, making advertising an ineffective choice. The true value of Replay emerges with long-term use and data accumulation, which makes a one-time purchase model less appealing, as users may be hesitant to invest heavily in a tool that doesn't provide immediate benefits. Subscription-based profit models have been gradually validated in recent years. In fact, many other personal history recording products also adopt subscription models, such as [Rewind](https://www.rewind.ai/) and [FootPrint](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/footprint-record-lifes-path/id1225520399).

Coming back to my motivation letter, I found that many of my entrepreneurial ideas, including Replay, are highly related to data, and as I aspire to launch my own venture in the future, I hope to delve further into the realm of data science. This would equip me with the necessary skills to leverage data analysis for gaining insights into user behavior, product performance, and market trends, thereby enabling more informed decision-making. I found that EIT's Data Science MSc program aligns perfectly with my needs, where I could learn about multiple topics surrounding data science, and get ample opportunities to acquire business and entrepreneurial skills. In short, I believe that this program is the best place for me to develop and thrive. I’m eager to join the fall 2024 class and anticipate contributing to and benefiting from this program.

Sincerely, Yuan Kaiwen