---
publish: false
date created: 2023-12-16
date modified: 2024-01-29
---
Dear Admissions Committee,

I am Yuan Kaiwen, a senior student majoring in Computer Science at Harbin Institute of Technology, Shenzhen. I am writing to apply for the Big Data track of the Computer Science program at VU Amsterdam and the University of Amsterdam.

Since before college, my ambition has always been to become an independent developer, which explains why I chose Computer Science as my undergraduate major. With this goal in mind, I have dedicated myself to excelling in academic coursework, culminating in a GPA of 3.83 out of 4 in one of the most prestigious Computer Science programs in China, with a strong record in the top 10% ranking of most core courses.

In addition to my academic achievements, I have actively sought opportunities to enhance my practical capabilities. As a team leader, I had the privilege of contributing to a project called the Intelligent COVID-19 Q&A System in collaboration with the National Center for Disease Control and Prevention. Understanding that COVID-19 information can often be scattered and lacking authority, our project aimed to create an intelligent Q&A system that delivers accurate and natural responses to COVID-19-related queries. Throughout this project, I engaged in various natural language processing and data-related tasks, including data processing of COVID-19 information from official websites such as CDC, ECDC, and WHO. By extracting question-answer pairs at different granularities and performing syntactic analysis of questions, I enhanced the generality of the Q&A system and finally achieved the desired effect. This experience allowed me to develop a strong foundation in engineering skills and contribute to a larger cause aligned with Sustainable Development Goal 3 - Good Health and Well-being.

However, as I gained more project experience, I realized that being an excellent indie developer requires not only strong engineering skills but also decision-making abilities. This is where the significance of data comes into play. Through data analysis, one can gain insights into user behavior, product performance, and market trends, enabling more informed decision-making. Realizing my lack of training in this area has led me to pursue a Master's degree in the Big Data track of this joint Computer Science program, where I will learn how to utilize the raw data on the web better, how to extract valuable insights and patterns from large datasets, and master other techniques in the lifecycle of data. Furthermore, the program combines the strengths of the two universities in different areas of computer science, such as parallel computing and cybersecurity at VU, and artificial intelligence at UvA. This combination provides diversity in curriculum design, research projects and other aspects, which convinces me that this program is the best place to develop and thrive.

I hope that I will be awarded the opportunity to have an insightful, exciting, and enlightening academic experience in this prestigious program. At the same time, I am fully confident that I can overcome any challenges and meet the expectations set in front of prospective students. I am also eager to apply the knowledge and skills gained from this program to make a meaningful impact in the field after graduation.