---
publish: false
date created: 2024-01-13
date modified: 2024-01-13
---
Dear Admissions Committee,

Since before college, my ambition has always been to become an independent developer, which explains why I chose Computer Science as my undergraduate major. With this goal in mind, I have dedicated myself to excelling in academic coursework, culminating in a GPA of 3.83 out of 4 in one of the most prestigious Computer Science programs in China, with a strong record in the top 10% ranking of most core courses.

In addition to my academic achievements, I have actively sought opportunities to enhance my practical capabilities. This semester, I participated in an open-source project called SDG ( Synthetic Data Generator ) and brought the Copula model as a statistical alternative to the GAN-based model for the project. Seeing my avatar appear in the list of contributors gives me a great sense of achievement. Furthermore, as a team leader, I contributed to a project called the Intelligent COVID-19 Q&A System in collaboration with the National Center for Disease Control and Prevention. Throughout this project, I engaged in various natural language processing and data-related tasks. By extracting question-answer pairs at different granularities and performing syntactic analysis of questions, I enhanced the generality of the Q&A system and finally achieved the desired effect. In addition, my curiosity about the financial industry drove me to undertake an internship at Uranus Research LLC, a multi-billion-dollar quantitative trading hedge fund in China. This involved intensive interaction with data, such as analyzing and modeling log data to establish anomaly detection logic, visualizing the data, and creating preliminary analysis reports. Although it differed from my initial objective of studying quantitative strategies, the internship was invaluable in broadening my understanding of trading systems and honing my engineering skills.

However, as I gained more project experience, I realized that being an excellent indie developer requires not only strong engineering skills but also decision-making abilities. This is where the significance of data comes into play. Through data analysis, one can gain insights into user behavior, product performance, and market trends, enabling more informed decision-making. Realizing my lack of training in this area has led me to pursue a Master's degree in the Data Science track of ICT Innovation program, 